Please check the resources section of this lecture.
There is a PDF download available.
In this lecture, we are going to secure WordPress using the command line.
We're going to start by editing WP config that we are then going to check the ownership of the WordPress
files and directories after the ownership.
We will look at the permissions on WordPress files and directories.
Then we're going to create a simple Besch script.
All the best script is it's a script that will run a series of commands.
I need to point out to you, if I type dollar user, it is the same as typing the user name that I am
working.
As if you look at the example S.H. own, that command is used to change ownership.
If I type my user Andrew or I type dollar user, it is exactly the same w w w hyphen data is the non-routine
web server user WP config.
We are going to allow Garecht updating using the dashboard by direct updating.
You can update your themes and plugins.
We are going to disable the built in editor that will prevent anyone from editing files using the WordPress
editor.
Then we need to look at permissions on WP config.
The ownership is as follows.
Your user is the owner of all the files and directories.
The group owner is the web server.
W w w hyphen TARTA.
If you are using a commercial theme or plugin, you may need to change the ownership of the WP content
directory to the web server as the owner and the web server as the group own getting the permissions
right now just as important as ensuring the correct ownership your WordPress files as have permissions
of six for four.
That means the owner can read and write to the files.
The group owner, the web server can read the files for all other users, can only read the files with
directories.
The owner can read, write, execute the group owner, the web server can read and execute.
All other users can read and execute.
WP content is where you store your uploads your themes, your plugins with WP content.
The files need to have permissions of six, six, four and directories need permissions of seven seven
five.
The reason being, if you use the WordPress dashboard, the web server needs to be able to write inside
those directories.
This is applicable to Theme's plugins downloaded from WordPress dot org with commercial themes and plug
ins.
It's the same permissions on the entire site, including WP hyphen content, because with commercial
themes and plug ins, the owner of WP content is the Web server.
So having permissions on files of six for four will allow the Web server to read and write.
When you update a theme or plugin or even uploading the few files, the permissions as well as the ownership
on those files will end up being incorrect.
If you use the WordPress command line interface to upload a file, the ownership will be your user as
the owner and your user as the group owner.
If you use the dashboard, the owner will be the web server and the group owner will be the Web server.
No, that is not correct.
The commands to change ownership as well as permissions are quite long and having to type them every
single time you do an update ends up wasting a lot of time.
We will make use of a Shell script.
All the Shell script is that it will execute a series of commands you specify.
I want to execute the following four commands.
All you do is run the script and one after another, the script will execute those commands.
We are going to make use of a shell script so we can speed up repetitive tasks like a shell script ends
in DOT is A and it starts with what is called the Shabangu line.
That is simply the path to the shell interpretor.
The Shabangu line is hash, exclamation mark, slash, burn, slash bash.
They are only three commands we will be using in this lecture, the S.H. own command, which is used
to change ownership and the find to command the.
Command is used to change ownership, the command with the hyphen uppercase R means that the command
will be executed recursively.
That means it's not only the top level directory, it's all the subdirectories and all the files inside
those subdirectories after the hyphen.
Or you type the user, which is the owner, Colon, and then the group owner.
So in our case, it will be the user will be our user and the group owner will be the web server w w
w hyphen darter.
Then you type the path to your WordPress site, slash four, slash w w w slash site name slash public
HTML.
Then we're going to make use of the find command.
We are going to say find in this path the type in the first case D for directory.
Once all the directories have been found, execute this command.
So we are going to execute the S.H. Mod which is used to change permissions and the permissions.
We want seven five five to change the file permissions.
We are saying find all the files in this path, then execute the sigmoid command and change the permissions
of every file that you find to six full for the only configuration file we will be editing is WP hyphen
config dot p.